# R-Project

Description of project:

The data sets in this project presents the housing value in suburbs of Boston. There are 452 instances and 13 variables in the data set. This data set is used to analyze the influence of different factors on the housing value of Boston suburbs and find a best fit interpretable regression model. We conducted multiple regression analysis and residual analysis in our project. A regression model is generally considered accepted if it satisfies two criteria. The first criteria is the variables should be significant and second one is residual plots should be distributed and there should not be any patters. The residual plots should satisfy the regression assumptions of normality and variance homogeneity of the residuals. Based on the results the regression models often requires transformation for certain variables. We had patters in our residual plots. Hence, we had to add quadratic term and natural log. Regression modeling is an iterative process. It requires such transformations to satisfy subjective criteria. The best fit of the model is evaluated each time a variable is added or removed from the regression process.

Our analysis on the dataset seeks to examine the influence of several neighborhood attributes on the prices of housing. The specific attributes to be considered are proximity to the Charles River, distance to the main employment centers, pupil-teacher ratio in schools, and levels of crime. The original study focused on air pollution using nitrogen oxide concentrations as an explanatory variable. Our analysis is to examines whether or not there are other, better explanatory variables for the median value of houses in Boston